README.md, before:

# Master Math

Master Math is a site that exposes users to the existence of a mathematics home tutor in London, UK. The site will be targeted toward parents who wish to employ the services of a home tutor to help improve their child's mathematics. Master Math will be useful to parents because it will outline the tutor's unique method of teaching, show them how to go about employing the tutor's services, and provide information on where to find the best resources for studying.

## User Experience (UX)

### User Story - New Customer

### User Story - Returning Customer

## Technology

### Languages

- HTML5 - Latest version of HTML. Allows content to be placed on the website.
- CSS3 - Lastest version of CSS. Allows for custom styling of HTML elements.

## Design

### __Colour Scheme__
The initial color scheme was derived using the tool from the [coolors]("https://coolors.co/") website.

The initial colours chosen were:
- #E2E2E2 (Platinum) - Used for the background colour for the website
- #5E9FFF (Cornflower blue) - Used as the colour for icons, the site logo and text emphasis.
- #EF6F6C (Light Coral) - Used as the background colour for call-to-action buttons.
- #A6BA78 (Olivine) - Used for the submit button on the contact form
- #565254 (Davy's gray) - Used as the color for partitions

According to accessibility guidelines (for users with colour blindness), the contrast ratio between foreground and background should be at least 7:1 for small text. Because of this, some of the colours needed to be changed.

The revised colour scheme is as follows:

- #E2E2E2 (Platinum) - Used for the background colour for the website
- #0000F4 (Blue) - Used as the colour for icons, the site logo and text emphasis.
- #EF6F6C (Light Coral) - Used as the background colour for call-to-action buttons.
- #A6BA78 (Olivine) - Used for the submit button on the contact form.
- #4A4547 (Davy's gray) - Used as the color for partitions and placeholder text.
- #000000 (Black) - Used for general text.

These are the results of the [contrast checker]("https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/"):

![Blue on Platinum Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-blue-platinum.jpg)
![Black on Olivine Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-black-olivine.jpg)
![Black on Light Coral Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-black-coral.jpg)
![Davy's Gray on Platinum Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-gray-platinum.jpg)

### __Typography__

### __Imagery__

### __Wireframes__

  ### Landing Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![Landing Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/landing-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### Landing Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![Landing Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/landing-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### Landing Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![Landing Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/landing-page-mockup-mobile.png)

  ### About Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![About Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/about-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### About Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![About Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/about-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### About Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![About Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/about-page-mockup-mobile.png)

  ### Contact Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![Contact Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/contact-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### Contact Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![Contact Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/contact-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### Contact Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![Contact Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/contact-page-mockup-mobile.png)

  ### Resources Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![Resources Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/resources-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### Resources Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![Resources Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/resources-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### Resources Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![Resources Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/resources-page-mockup-mobile.png)



## Features 

### Existing Features

#### __Header and Navigation Bar__

  - Featured on all six pages, the fully responsive header and navigation bar includes links to the Home page, About page, Contact page and Resources page; and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
  - This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button. 
  - On smaller screens, the navigation bar will change in layout to present the navigation links below the website logo.

![Nav Bar - Desktop](./assets/media/features/navbar-feature.jpg)
![Nav Bar - Mobile](./assets/media/features/navbar-responsive-feature.jpg)

#### __The Landing Page__

  - The landing page includes three main sections.
  - The first section includes a photo of the tutor along with some basic information which together take up a third of the page's width on desktop, and a large tagline filling the rest of the page's width. Below the tagline, there is a call to action button.
  - Regarding the tagline, the word "better" is highlighted in blue in order to catch the user's attention and invoke a good feeling for the user, since "better" is a positive word.
  - The call to action button is pink which should catch the user's attention next, inviting them to navigate to the about section. 

![Landing Page - Section One - Desktop](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-one-desktop.jpg)

  - On devices like tablets which have smaller screens, the layout of this first section changes. Instead, the tagline is placed first, due to its importance, and then the tutor and their information is placed below.

![Landing Page - Section One - Tablet](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-one-tablet.jpg)

  - On even smaller screens like mobile phones, the layout changes further. Below the tagline, the tutor's photo appears first and then the tutor's information.

![Landing Page - Section One - Mobile](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-one-mobile.png)

  - Below the first section are two more sections which is dedicated to users that are already convinced by the tutor's teaching skills or are returning to the website seeking resources for their children. The layout of these two sections change minimally on smaller screens.

![Landing Page - Section Two and Three - Desktop](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-two-three-desktop.jpg)
![Landing Page - Section Two and Three - Mobile](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-two-three-mobile.png)

#### __The About Page__

  - The about page is split into three sections.
  - The first section is a quote about education from the philosopher Confucius. The idea is to set the tone for the page and give the user an idea of the tutor's principles in teaching. For a parent who has yet to work with the tutor, this should provide some value to the user and entice them further into working with the tutor.
  - On smaller screens, the name "Confucius" appears in the middle of the screen for better readability.

![About Page - Section One - Desktop](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-one-desktop.jpg)
![About Page - Section One - Mobile](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-one-mobile.jpg)

  - The next section on the about page provides an outline of the tutor's story and details how the tutor will ensure the best outcome for their students. It can be difficult for a parent to trust someone else to teach their child and so this provides value in setting expectations regarding exactly what service the tutor does and does not provice. Parents who do not like the approach do not move forward, whereas parents who do will scroll further and attempt to book a callback.

![![About Page - Section Two - Desktop]()

  - The last section allows the user to find out whether they live in an area appropriate for the tutor to travel to. This is a further filter so that the tutor can ensure they can work with the ideal client.
  - At the bottom of this section is a call to action button directing the user to the contact page. This is exactly where the user wants to go once they have been convinced of the tutor's expertise and professionalism.
  - This section is fully responsive but the layout does not change on smaller screens.

![About Page - Section Three - Desktop](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-three-desktop.jpg)

![About Page - Section Three - Mobile](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-three-mobile.jpg)

#### __The Contact Page__

  - The contact page begins by congratulating the user in finding their way to the contact page while the tutor still has availability. This is to create a sense of scarcity; with the idea being that tomorrow, the tutor's schedule may be all filled out. 
  - The text below the congratulations message also reminds the user what the process is to securing a callback and promts the user to fill out the following form.
  - The form is split into two parts, left and right on desktop. The left hand side contains required fields asking for essential information the tutor needs to call the parent back, while the right side contains an optional textbox for the parent to write a custom message.
  - The form provides value to the parent because by this point they want this tutor to teach their child. Becasue of this, they would want to give as much information as necessary to the tutor so they can do their job to the best of their ability. Filling out the form gives the parent more confidence in the tutor's abilities.

![Contact Page - Desktop]()

  - While being responsive, the form also chanages layout on smaller screens. The left side which asks for essential information is placed on top, while the textbox is placed beneath. This is to allow the user to still see the placeholder text on smaller screens so it is clear what they should write there.

![Contact Page - Mobile]()

#### __The Success Page__

  - On submitting the contact form, the user will be directed to a page telling the user that their message has been sent successfully. This provides value to the user becasue a user may become anxious that something has gone awry if they are not provided a confirmation message; it comforts the user.
  - Following the success message, there is a call to action section allowing the user to be shown the way to the resources page. This provides further value to the user because some parents may want some extra work for their children to do while they wait to secure a tutoring session.
  - If the user does not wish to go to the resources section, they are also given the option to navigate to the landing page. This will allow the user to see the website tagline and tutor's basic information, and further reinforce their decision in selected this tutor.

![Success Page - Desktop](./assets/media/features/success-page-desktop.jpg)

#### __The Resources Page__

  - The Resources Page begins with a short introduction telling the user what this page is about.
  - The main section below the welcome message is split into two parts, GCSE and A-Level Maths.
  - Both parts are styled the same with a screenshot on the left hand side and on the right, a brief description of the website's resources and the tutor's recommendation in how to use it.
  - This provides great value to the user becasue there is a great variety in reasons to use each resource which can cater for a variety of needs.

![Resources Page - Desktop](./assets/media/features/resources-section-desktop.png)

  - While being responsive, the resources page also changes layout on smaller screens. The screenshot image of the website is shown below the title of the resource, and the description is shown below. This is done to give better readability to the user.

![Resources Page - Mobile](./assets/media/features/resources-section-mobile.png)

#### __The 404 Page__

  - This page will load for the user in the unlikely event that there are broken links on the website or if a user were to type in a nonexistent subdirectory into the web address box.
  - This provides value to the user by directing them to the landing page of the website so that they can achieve their goal for visiting.

![404 Page](./assets/media/features/404-page.jpg)

- __The Footer__ 

  - The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for MAster Maths. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.
  - The footer is valuable to the user as it encourages them to keep connected via social media.
  - The footer also includes an anchor allowing the user to quickly move to the top of the page. This is exceptionally valuable to the user if visiting the Resources or About page which can be quite long on mobile.

![Footer](./assets/media/features/footer-desktop.jpg)

  - On smaller screens, the space between the items decreases but the layout does not change.

![Footer](./assets/media/features/footer-mobile.jpg)

### Features Left to Implement

- On extremely small screens, it may be a better design for the website name be changed to a Logo just like the favicon on the left hand side, while the right hand side changes into a hamburger menu. Then the hamburger menu is tapped, the navigation menu is shown.

- An alternative layout for the header on extremely small screens may be for the website name to stay the same while the navigation links are replaced by a circle button; which, when tapped, will reveal a navigation menu which pushes the rest of the pages content down with a smooth scroll.

## Testing 

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your project’s features and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.


### Validator Testing 

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fcode-institute-org.github.io%2Flove-running-2.0%2Findex.html)
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)

### Unfixed Bugs

You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed. 

## Deployment

This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub) 

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows: 
  - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab .
  - Under the "Code and automation" section, click on "Pages"
  - Under "Build and Deployment", select the option "Deploy from a branch" for "Source", and for "Branch", select "main".


The live link can be found here - https://code-institute-org.github.io/love-running-2.0/index.html 


## Credits 

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism. 

You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project. 

### Content 

- The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
- Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

### Media

- The photos used on the home and sign up page are from This Open Source site
- The images used for the gallery page were taken from this other open source site


Congratulations on completing your Readme, you have made another big stride in the direction of being a developer! 

## Other General Project Advice

Below you will find a couple of extra tips that may be helpful when completing your project. Remember that each of these projects will become part of your final portfolio so it’s important to allow enough time to showcase your best work! 

- One of the most basic elements of keeping a healthy commit history is with the commit message. When getting started with your project, read through [this article](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) by Chris Beams on How to Write  a Git Commit Message 
  - Make sure to keep the messages in the imperative mood 

- When naming the files in your project directory, make sure to consider meaningful naming of files, point to specific names and sections of content.
  - For example, instead of naming an image used ‘image1.png’ consider naming it ‘landing_page_img.png’. This will ensure that there are clear file paths kept. 

- Do some extra research on good and bad coding practices, there are a handful of useful articles to read, consider reviewing the following list when getting started:
  - [Writing Your Best Code](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/writing-your-best-code/)
  - [HTML & CSS Coding Best Practices](https://medium.com/@inceptiondj.info/html-css-coding-best-practice-fadb9870a00f)
  - [Google HTML/CSS Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/htmlcssguide.html#General)

Getting started with your Portfolio Projects can be daunting, planning your project can make it a lot easier to tackle, take small steps to reach the final outcome and enjoy the process!

Commit message:

add content for typography and imagery sections in README

README.md, after:

# Master Math

Master Math is a site that exposes users to the existence of a mathematics home tutor in London, UK. The site will be targeted toward parents who wish to employ the services of a home tutor to help improve their child's mathematics. Master Math will be useful to parents because it will outline the tutor's unique method of teaching, show them how to go about employing the tutor's services, and provide information on where to find the best resources for studying.

## User Experience (UX)

### User Story - New Customer

### User Story - Returning Customer

## Technology

### Languages

- HTML5 - Latest version of HTML. Allows content to be placed on the website.
- CSS3 - Lastest version of CSS. Allows for custom styling of HTML elements.

## Design

### __Colour Scheme__
The initial color scheme was derived using the tool from the [coolors](https://coolors.co/) website.

The initial colours chosen were:
- #E2E2E2 (Platinum) - Used for the background colour for the website
- #5E9FFF (Cornflower blue) - Used as the colour for icons, the site logo and text emphasis.
- #EF6F6C (Light Coral) - Used as the background colour for call-to-action buttons.
- #A6BA78 (Olivine) - Used for the submit button on the contact form
- #565254 (Davy's gray) - Used as the color for partitions

According to accessibility guidelines (for users with colour blindness), the contrast ratio between foreground and background should be at least 7:1 for small text. Because of this, some of the colours needed to be changed.

The revised colour scheme is as follows:

- #E2E2E2 (Platinum) - Used for the background colour for the website
- #0000F4 (Blue) - Used as the colour for icons, the site logo and text emphasis.
- #EF6F6C (Light Coral) - Used as the background colour for call-to-action buttons.
- #A6BA78 (Olivine) - Used for the submit button on the contact form.
- #4A4547 (Davy's gray) - Used as the color for partitions and placeholder text.
- #000000 (Black) - Used for general text.

These are the results of the [contrast checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/):

![Blue on Platinum Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-blue-platinum.jpg)
![Black on Olivine Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-black-olivine.jpg)
![Black on Light Coral Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-black-coral.jpg)
![Davy's Gray on Platinum Background](./assets/media/contrast/contrast-check-gray-platinum.jpg)

### __Typography__

The fonts for this project were:

- Monserrat - Used for headings and button text.
- Noto Serif - Used for paragraph text and other non-header text.

Both fonts were obtained through Google Fonts.

The typography idea was taken from [this website](https://www.fontpairings.com/). I thought both fonts complemented each other well and were appropriate for this project.

### __Imagery__

Imagery on this website was kept minimal. The only picture on it is a photo of the tutor. The idea is for this to make the image stand out and be more memorable.

### __Wireframes__

  ### Landing Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![Landing Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/landing-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### Landing Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![Landing Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/landing-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### Landing Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![Landing Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/landing-page-mockup-mobile.png)

  ### About Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![About Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/about-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### About Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![About Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/about-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### About Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![About Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/about-page-mockup-mobile.png)

  ### Contact Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![Contact Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/contact-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### Contact Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![Contact Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/contact-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### Contact Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![Contact Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/contact-page-mockup-mobile.png)

  ### Resources Page Mockup - Desktop Version
  ![Resources Page Mockup - Desktop Version](./assets/media/wireframes/resources-page-mockup-desktop.png)

  ### Resources Page Mockup - Tabelt Version
  ![Resources Page Mockup - Tabelt Version](./assets/media/wireframes/resources-page-mockup-tablet.png)

  ### Resources Page Mockup - Mobile Version
  ![Resources Page Mockup - Mobile Version](./assets/media/wireframes/resources-page-mockup-mobile.png)



## Features 

### Existing Features

#### __Header and Navigation Bar__

  - Featured on all six pages, the fully responsive header and navigation bar includes links to the Home page, About page, Contact page and Resources page; and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
  - This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button. 
  - On smaller screens, the navigation bar will change in layout to present the navigation links below the website logo.

![Nav Bar - Desktop](./assets/media/features/navbar-feature.jpg)
![Nav Bar - Mobile](./assets/media/features/navbar-responsive-feature.jpg)

#### __The Landing Page__

  - The landing page includes three main sections.
  - The first section includes a photo of the tutor along with some basic information which together take up a third of the page's width on desktop, and a large tagline filling the rest of the page's width. Below the tagline, there is a call to action button.
  - Regarding the tagline, the word "better" is highlighted in blue in order to catch the user's attention and invoke a good feeling for the user, since "better" is a positive word.
  - The call to action button is pink which should catch the user's attention next, inviting them to navigate to the about section. 

![Landing Page - Section One - Desktop](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-one-desktop.jpg)

  - On devices like tablets which have smaller screens, the layout of this first section changes. Instead, the tagline is placed first, due to its importance, and then the tutor and their information is placed below.

![Landing Page - Section One - Tablet](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-one-tablet.jpg)

  - On even smaller screens like mobile phones, the layout changes further. Below the tagline, the tutor's photo appears first and then the tutor's information.

![Landing Page - Section One - Mobile](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-one-mobile.png)

  - Below the first section are two more sections which is dedicated to users that are already convinced by the tutor's teaching skills or are returning to the website seeking resources for their children. The layout of these two sections change minimally on smaller screens.

![Landing Page - Section Two and Three - Desktop](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-two-three-desktop.jpg)
![Landing Page - Section Two and Three - Mobile](./assets/media/features/landing-page-section-two-three-mobile.png)

#### __The About Page__

  - The about page is split into three sections.
  - The first section is a quote about education from the philosopher Confucius. The idea is to set the tone for the page and give the user an idea of the tutor's principles in teaching. For a parent who has yet to work with the tutor, this should provide some value to the user and entice them further into working with the tutor.
  - On smaller screens, the name "Confucius" appears in the middle of the screen for better readability.

![About Page - Section One - Desktop](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-one-desktop.jpg)
![About Page - Section One - Mobile](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-one-mobile.jpg)

  - The next section on the about page provides an outline of the tutor's story and details how the tutor will ensure the best outcome for their students. It can be difficult for a parent to trust someone else to teach their child and so this provides value in setting expectations regarding exactly what service the tutor does and does not provice. Parents who do not like the approach do not move forward, whereas parents who do will scroll further and attempt to book a callback.

![![About Page - Section Two - Desktop]()

  - The last section allows the user to find out whether they live in an area appropriate for the tutor to travel to. This is a further filter so that the tutor can ensure they can work with the ideal client.
  - At the bottom of this section is a call to action button directing the user to the contact page. This is exactly where the user wants to go once they have been convinced of the tutor's expertise and professionalism.
  - This section is fully responsive but the layout does not change on smaller screens.

![About Page - Section Three - Desktop](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-three-desktop.jpg)

![About Page - Section Three - Mobile](./assets/media/features/about-page-section-three-mobile.jpg)

#### __The Contact Page__

  - The contact page begins by congratulating the user in finding their way to the contact page while the tutor still has availability. This is to create a sense of scarcity; with the idea being that tomorrow, the tutor's schedule may be all filled out. 
  - The text below the congratulations message also reminds the user what the process is to securing a callback and promts the user to fill out the following form.
  - The form is split into two parts, left and right on desktop. The left hand side contains required fields asking for essential information the tutor needs to call the parent back, while the right side contains an optional textbox for the parent to write a custom message.
  - The form provides value to the parent because by this point they want this tutor to teach their child. Becasue of this, they would want to give as much information as necessary to the tutor so they can do their job to the best of their ability. Filling out the form gives the parent more confidence in the tutor's abilities.

![Contact Page - Desktop]()

  - While being responsive, the form also chanages layout on smaller screens. The left side which asks for essential information is placed on top, while the textbox is placed beneath. This is to allow the user to still see the placeholder text on smaller screens so it is clear what they should write there.

![Contact Page - Mobile]()

#### __The Success Page__

  - On submitting the contact form, the user will be directed to a page telling the user that their message has been sent successfully. This provides value to the user becasue a user may become anxious that something has gone awry if they are not provided a confirmation message; it comforts the user.
  - Following the success message, there is a call to action section allowing the user to be shown the way to the resources page. This provides further value to the user because some parents may want some extra work for their children to do while they wait to secure a tutoring session.
  - If the user does not wish to go to the resources section, they are also given the option to navigate to the landing page. This will allow the user to see the website tagline and tutor's basic information, and further reinforce their decision in selected this tutor.

![Success Page - Desktop](./assets/media/features/success-page-desktop.jpg)

#### __The Resources Page__

  - The Resources Page begins with a short introduction telling the user what this page is about.
  - The main section below the welcome message is split into two parts, GCSE and A-Level Maths.
  - Both parts are styled the same with a screenshot on the left hand side and on the right, a brief description of the website's resources and the tutor's recommendation in how to use it.
  - This provides great value to the user becasue there is a great variety in reasons to use each resource which can cater for a variety of needs.

![Resources Page - Desktop](./assets/media/features/resources-section-desktop.png)

  - While being responsive, the resources page also changes layout on smaller screens. The screenshot image of the website is shown below the title of the resource, and the description is shown below. This is done to give better readability to the user.

![Resources Page - Mobile](./assets/media/features/resources-section-mobile.png)

#### __The 404 Page__

  - This page will load for the user in the unlikely event that there are broken links on the website or if a user were to type in a nonexistent subdirectory into the web address box.
  - This provides value to the user by directing them to the landing page of the website so that they can achieve their goal for visiting.

![404 Page](./assets/media/features/404-page.jpg)

- __The Footer__ 

  - The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for MAster Maths. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.
  - The footer is valuable to the user as it encourages them to keep connected via social media.
  - The footer also includes an anchor allowing the user to quickly move to the top of the page. This is exceptionally valuable to the user if visiting the Resources or About page which can be quite long on mobile.

![Footer](./assets/media/features/footer-desktop.jpg)

  - On smaller screens, the space between the items decreases but the layout does not change.

![Footer](./assets/media/features/footer-mobile.jpg)

### Features Left to Implement

- On extremely small screens, it may be a better design for the website name be changed to a Logo just like the favicon on the left hand side, while the right hand side changes into a hamburger menu. Then the hamburger menu is tapped, the navigation menu is shown.

- An alternative layout for the header on extremely small screens may be for the website name to stay the same while the navigation links are replaced by a circle button; which, when tapped, will reveal a navigation menu which pushes the rest of the pages content down with a smooth scroll.

## Testing 

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your project’s features and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.


### Validator Testing 

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fcode-institute-org.github.io%2Flove-running-2.0%2Findex.html)
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)

### Unfixed Bugs

You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed. 

## Deployment

This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub) 

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows: 
  - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab .
  - Under the "Code and automation" section, click on "Pages"
  - Under "Build and Deployment", select the option "Deploy from a branch" for "Source", and for "Branch", select "main".


The live link can be found here - https://code-institute-org.github.io/love-running-2.0/index.html 


## Credits 

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism. 

You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project. 

### Content 

- The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
- Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

### Media

- The photos used on the home and sign up page are from This Open Source site
- The images used for the gallery page were taken from this other open source site


Congratulations on completing your Readme, you have made another big stride in the direction of being a developer! 

## Other General Project Advice

Below you will find a couple of extra tips that may be helpful when completing your project. Remember that each of these projects will become part of your final portfolio so it’s important to allow enough time to showcase your best work! 

- One of the most basic elements of keeping a healthy commit history is with the commit message. When getting started with your project, read through [this article](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) by Chris Beams on How to Write  a Git Commit Message 
  - Make sure to keep the messages in the imperative mood 

- When naming the files in your project directory, make sure to consider meaningful naming of files, point to specific names and sections of content.
  - For example, instead of naming an image used ‘image1.png’ consider naming it ‘landing_page_img.png’. This will ensure that there are clear file paths kept. 

- Do some extra research on good and bad coding practices, there are a handful of useful articles to read, consider reviewing the following list when getting started:
  - [Writing Your Best Code](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/writing-your-best-code/)
  - [HTML & CSS Coding Best Practices](https://medium.com/@inceptiondj.info/html-css-coding-best-practice-fadb9870a00f)
  - [Google HTML/CSS Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/htmlcssguide.html#General)

Getting started with your Portfolio Projects can be daunting, planning your project can make it a lot easier to tackle, take small steps to reach the final outcome and enjoy the process!
